# Class 3

## Reading Notes

# JS Control Flow

### Arrays pp. 70-73

- special type of variable that stores a list of values

### Decisions and Loops pp 162-182

- Loops check a condition. If it returns true, a code block will run. Then condition is checked again and if it still returns true, the code block will run again. It repeats until the condition returns **false.**
- Three common LOOP TYPES:
  - FOR LOOPS
    - Runs code a specified number of times. 
    - Condition is usually a counter that says how many times to run the loop.
  - WHILE LOOPS
    - If you don't know how many times code should run. 
    - Condition is something other than a counter
    - Code continues to loop for as long as condition is true.
  - DO...WHILE LOOPS
    - one key difference from while loop: it will always run statements inside the curly braces at least once, even if the condition evaluates as false.

`for (var i = 0; i < 10; i ++) {`

`document.write(i);`

}

#### Switch Statements

- switch statement starts iwth a variable called the switch value.
- Indicates a possible value for this variable and the code that should run if the variable matches that value.

# HTML Lists / CSS Boxes

## Boxes


# Lecture Notes

### Arrays

- Data Type -- data structure (special type of object)
- essentially just a collection or list of elements. How we store elements or different types of data using javascript.
  - can be mixed: strings, numbers, booleans, or other arrays in one single array.
- in js, we don't have to predetermine the size of our array
- every element in the array has an index or location reference -- for computer to know to go into this array and grab specific number from this index
- JS arrays are zero-based index.

- Arrays come with their own built-in **METHODS** that you can chain on.
  - `.pop()` - removes elements from the end of the array
  - `.push()` - add elements to the end of the array.

- PROPERTY
  - .length -- tell us how long our array is.

              0     1      2  3       4
`let myArr = [1, 'hello', '', true, [1,2,5]];`

`let students = ['Michael', 'Raul', 'Scott', 'Elizabeth',];`

`let michael = students[0]`

`console.log(michael);`

// Add to the array

// `.push(); add to the end of the array` -- most common

`students.push('Dana', '33');`

// Add using the bracket notation

`students[5] = 'JJ';`

`console.log(students);`

// ADD OR REASSIGN using the bracket notation

`students[2] = '33';`

`students[1] = 'Raul';`

// Removing from an array
- .pop() method removes from the end
-  `let jon = students.pop();`
- `console.log(jon);`
- `console.log(students.length);`

### For Loops

#### Anatomy

> `for(starting value; condition; increment){`

>   > //. `code block - do something each iteration/loop`

`let nums = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];`

`for(let i = 0; i < nums.length;; i++){`

`console.log('The sum of ${nums[i]} plus 1 is ${nums[i]+1}');` 

  - `(using template literal)`
