# Class 2

## Basics of HTML, CSS, JS

## HTML

- Chapter 2 pp. 40-61
- Ch 10 pp. 226-245

## JS

- Ch 2 pp. 53 - 84
- Ch 4 pp. 145 - only up to 162

String Concatination vs. Template literal

**TEMPLATE LITERAL** -- use when you need to bring in variables.

- first, wrap whole string in backtics 
- when you hit a variable, wrap it in a $ and a set of curly brackets.
- e.j. (`blah blah ${userName} blah blah`)

# Lecture Notes

Javascript is **loosely typed** and **dynamic** language.
- Loosely typed means that we don't have to know the type of data to declare a variable. 

- Variables at declaration don't need data.

- Dynamic = I can change the type of data after the variable has been declared.

`let dog;`

`dog = 4;`

`dog = true;`

#### Strings

- Sequence of characters used to represent text ... written with single quotes

#### Booleans

- Logical types 
  - `true`
  - `false`

#### Undefined

- Something that has not yet been defined
  - `let dog;`

  #### Null

  - Something that is defined as non
    - `let dog = null;`

IF - ELSE

if(somethingEvaluatesToTrue) {
  do something;
} else if( thisEvaluatesToTrue ) {
  do this;
} else {
  do this if all others were not true
}

#### Truthy and Falsy

- Truthy
  - strings, numbers outside 0
- Falsy
  - 0, null, undefined, empty string
- However...
  - a string of 0 will evaluate as truthy -- ('0')

## Comparison Operators

- == comparitive equals "loosely equal" -- NOT OUR WORLD

- === strictly equals -- THIS IS OUR WORLD

  - less than / greater than
  - less/greater than or equal to >= / <=
  - !== strictly not equal to

Logical Operators

  - ! - not
  - && - and
  - || - or

let a = 5

console.log(a === 5);
console.log

## Logical Operators