# Class 5

## CSS notes

### Absolute Units 

- they're the same size regardless of the parent element or window size.
- not recommended for responsive sites
- most common absolute unit = PX

### Relative Units

- used for styling responsive sites. They scale relative to the parent element or to the window size.

### Percentages - %

- always relative to some other value.
- sometimes it's a value from the parent and other times it's a value from the element itself
- usually more appropriate for layout-related properties.

- width: 50% - half the width of the parent.
- line-height: 50% - half the font-size of the element itself.

### `em`

- with other properties, 1em is equal to the computed font-size of the element itself... like with 'line-height'

- font-size: 1em - equals the font-size of the parent
- font-size: 2em = twice the font size of the parent, etc.

for example,

```css
    h1 {
      font-size: 20px;
      /*using em here the line height would be half of the element itself */
      line-height: 50%;
    }
```

- defining font-size using 'em' can cause problems when you have nested elements which all define font-size using `em` -- because the inherited font-size is calculated from parent elements font-size value and passed down to child elements. Nested elements could have ever decreasing font-sizes.

### `rem` -- root em

CHECK LECTURE NOTES

## Functions

- Return statements
  - if we don't specify 'return', it'll return undefined.
  - might not always be necessary.
  - function declarations require returns.
  - Telling function to output data. 
  - when we have a return statement in a function, we can capture that return using a variable.
  - Return statements is like "break" -- ends it. So doesn't read any lines after.


function product(a,b){
  return a*b;
}

let myNumber = product(10,10);

console.log(myNumber);



function userName(first, last){
  return [first, last];
}
let myName = userName('Elizabeth', 'Beale');

console.log(developer);
> [result: 'Elizabeth', 'Beale']


console.log(developer[0]);
> result: Elizabeth
// developer is holding the return, which is an array, and I can then use that to access any of those values.

```js
let ourArray = [];
for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++){
  ourArray.push(i);
}
```
