# Class 10, Friday, 3/18

## Debugging (Ch 10)

### Helpful Ways

- console.log / check the console
  - `console.log(here?)` at end of function
- linter
- comment out sections of code
  - declaring a variable that hasn't been used
  - variable can't be read
- Breakpoint - comes with our debugger in vs code.

### Error Messages

- Syntax error: unexpected token
- Reference error: variable not defined
- Type error: function or method expected a certain type 

## Native Array Methods

- Adding elements to an array - push and unshift
  - .push() - add to end of the array.
  - .unshift() - add to the start of the array

- Removing elements from array
  - .pop() removes from the end of the array.
    - `let removedMonth = months.pop();`
    - `console.log(removedMonth);`
  -.shift() - remove from start of array.
    - `let shiftedMonth = months.shift();`
    - `console.log(shiftedMonths);`
    - `console.log(months)`

- REMOVE and ADD to array (at any place)
  - .splice() parameter: What index to start, | # of items to remove/add if any | What to add.

    - `months.splice(2, 0, 'Mar', 'Apr', 'May')`
    - // 2 - starting at index 2 (3rd item).
    - // 0 - don't want to remove anything.
  
    - Adding works the same.

    - .includes()
      - Return you a boolean value if whatever you pass into it is in your array.
      - It's a for-loop that will loop through array and check every one, then return true or false

      - `let includesReturn =`
      - `months.includes('Dec');`
      - `console.log(includesReturn)`

HELPFUL FOR LAB NEXT WEEK:

- Stacks - first in last out
- Queues - first in first out

  - say you have empty array, and push things into the array.
    - `[1,2,3,4]` <-- push in // shift (Queue)
    - `[1,2,3,4]` <-- push in // pop (Stack)