# Class 01 - Intro to React and Components

## [Component-Based Architecture](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/software_architecture_design/component_based_architecture.htm)

**What is a component?**
- A reusable bit of code. Serves the same purpose as js function, but works in isolation 

**What are the characteristics of a component?**

- Reusable: Can be reused in multiple situations and applications.
- Replaceable: You can switch one component for another.
- Not context specific - Can be used in different environments.
- Extensible - Extensions can be built on top of existing components for further functionality.
- Encapsulated - When called the component doesn’t expose details within the component
- Independent - Made with minimal dependencies on other components.

**What are the advantages of using component-based architure?**

- Ease of deployment - New and better components come out in time and they’re easier to implement and have less impact on other components.
- Reduced cost - Third-party components takes the cost out of building your own. Ease of development - The interfaces are well known and provide defined functionality.
- Reusable - The components can be used widely and not in one app only
- Modification of technical complexity - Components have their own container which houses the code. Complexity lies within its own container.
- Reliability - Since components are independent this causes the system to be more reliable.
- System maintenance - Easy to change or update the individual components without rewriting the system.
- Independent - Components do all the work with flexibility and are able to work with other components.

## [What is Props and how to use it in react](https://itnext.io/what-is-props-and-how-to-use-it-in-react-da307f500da0#:~:text=%E2%80%9CProps%E2%80%9D%20is%20a%20special%20keyword,way%20from%20parent%20to%20child)

**What is PROPS short for?**

**Properties.** These are passing the property details from one component to another.

**How are props used in React?**

Props are used to change the properties of components. For example, you can change the text content of an html element using a variable and use the prop as a property of the html element to change its text to whatever text was assigned in the variable.

**What is the flow of props?**

Parent ----> Child. Uni-directional

## Bookmark / Review

- [React tutorial - 'Passing Data Through Props'](https://reactjs.org/tutorial/tutorial.html)
- [React Docs - Hello World](https://reactjs.org/docs/hello-world.html)
- [React Docs - Introducing JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)
- [React Docs - Rendering elements](https://reactjs.org/docs/rendering-elements.html)
- [React Docs - Components and Props](https://reactjs.org/docs/components-and-props.html)

## Lecture Notes

### Hoisting

```js
function add (2, 3);

function add (a, b){
  return a + b;
}

let myAdd = function(a, b) {
  return a + b;
}

let sum2 = myAdd(2, 5);
console.log(sum);
console.log(sum2);
```js

## For-Each

```js
// for-each is a very simple for-loop. allows you to write less code.

let arr = [4, 2, 3];
let newArr = [];

for(let i = 0; i < arr.length; i++) {
  newArr.push(arr[i]);
}
// OR CAN WRITE AS //
arr.forEach((num) => {
  newArr.push(num);
});
//num is telling forEach to call each item that you iterate through a "num" let num = "the item you are dealing with at the moment"

```js

## REACT

User Interface Library (not a framework)

- used for creating agnostic user interfaces

## LECTURE NOTES

HOISTING

- vanilla JS function declaration: can call before define.

- vanilla JS function expression: have to define before calling.

## Basic REACT COMPONENT Structure

```js
import React from 'react';

class Something extends React.Component { // declaring a class (the component = Something - usually give it same name as file)
  render() { // calling render method - a method available from react.
    return( // returning html that you want to see
       <section>
         <h1>Header for Something</h1>
         <p>Text that is all about Something.<p>
       </section>
    )
  }
}

export default Something;
```
