# Class # 15 - Authentication 🔑

[What is OAuth](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html)

## OAuth 

- Authorization framework that allows access to a user's protected data without sharing user's login credentials
- Example: sending cloud-stored files to someone via email. Or making an account on a new site by logging into your Google account.

**How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?**

- User logs into one website, then initiates a transaction to gain access to an another (unrelated) site.
- The first site connects to second site on user's behalf
- Second site provides a one-time **token** and a one-time **secret** unique to that transaction.
- First site gives the token + secret to user's client software.
- Client's software presents request token + secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
- Client is asked to approve authorization transaction to second site.
- User is given an **approved access token** (note: no longer a request token), which user gives to first site.
- First site gives access token to second site as proof of authentication, and second lets first access their site on behalf of user.

**OpenID:** works in tandem with OAuth to authenticate tokens

[Authorization and Authentication flow](https://auth0.com/docs/get-started/authentication-and-authorization-flow)

**Authorization** vs. **Authentication**

- Authorization is like asking permission.
- Authentication is like being given a ticket that says you have permission.

**Authorization Code Flow** exchanges an authorization code for a token with the secret to get a permissable token.

What is **Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)**? A way to pass a secret over to the code verifier to enable a user to get back an authorization code in exchange for a token.

**Implicit Flow with Form Post:** A web app request that obtains tokens through the front channel (without having to pass a secret)

**Client Credentials Flow:** used in machine-to-machine applications (authorizes the app rather than the user). Passes along a client ID and a secret to authenticate and get a token.

**Device Authorization Flow:** asks the user to go to a link in a browser to authorize a device.

**Resource Owner Password Flow:** only to be used by highly trusted applications. Get credentials from user with interactive form.

## Bookmark and Review

- [AuthO for single page apps](https://auth0.com/docs/libraries/auth0-react)