# Class 10 - In memory storage

[Understanding the JavaScript Call Stack](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4)

**What is a ‘call’?** Function Invocation

**How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?** One call at a time from top to bottom of the stack.

**What does LIFO mean?** Last in First out - Whatever comes in last on the stock is going to pop out first.

**What causes a Stack Overflow?** A stack overflow is caused by a function that calls itself. This is called a recursive function.

----

[JavaScript error messages](https://codeburst.io/javascript-error-messages-debugging-d23f84f0ae7c)

**A `reference error`** occurs when the reference can't be found, e.g., the variable wasn't declared.

**A `syntax error`** is generally due to a missing semi-colon, objects not having quotes, or missing parenthases.

**A `range error`** refers to the range of an object or array and will throw the error if it's outside the number of indexes within that object or array.

**A `tyep error`** refers to the type of data, not a typo. Like if you're trying to do a math equation with a string instead of a number, that would be incompatible.

**A breakpoint** is a console utility that allows us to see if a specific line of code was run. we can check to see if it runs and continue to check and see if other lines run in  order to debug...better.

**The word ‘debugger’** creates a pseudo breakpoint on the line where we want to break. Basically does the same thing as breakpoint but we add it in as code.

## Bookmark and Review

- [JavaScript erros reference on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Errors)
