# Class 12 - CRUD -Creating and Deleting Resources

[Status Codes Based on REST Methods](https://www.moesif.com/blog/technical/api-design/Which-HTTP-Status-Code-To-Use-For-Every-CRUD-App/)

Describe what each group of status code represents:

- 100s = Informational. The header of the request was received but most likely the rest of the request will fail.
- 200s = Success. Request was accepted
- 300s = Redirection. The resource requested is not available at the expected location, client must redirect.
- 400s = Client Error. an invalid request was sent to the server.
- 500s = Server Error. Server overwhelmed or unreachable.

`status code 202` : Request went well, however the request will be processed in the near future

`status code 308` : Permanent redirect. Redirects to a new url where the resource is available.

What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client? `204` tells us that the request was received but there was no content

What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does? `410`

What is the **Forbidden** status code? `403`

[Video - build a REST API with Node.js, Express, & MongoDB - Quick](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCFbNIlppjAuEX4znoulh0Cw) - first 20 min.

**Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?** 

- When site is deployed, we won't be using localhost as our connection point. Take it out of our main app and use it as an enviro variable .

**Middleware** runs between when the server receives a request and when that request gets passed to a route.

What does `app.use(express.json())` do? Lets the server accept json as a body inside a post or get element.

What does the `/:id` mean in a route? It delcares the path parameter, i.e., says what to grab and extract. ":" is like declaring a variable.

**What is the difference between `PUT` and `PATCH`?**

- `PATCH` updates only part of the data based on what is passed in (i.e., just the name but no other info).
- `PUT` updates everything.

**How do you make a default value in a schema?**

- use the default keyword as a key value pair within the object of our schema. `default: Date.now`

**What does a `500` error status code mean?** Error on the server is causing request to fail.

**What is the difference between a status `200` and a status `201`?**

- `201` means we successfully created something.
- `200` is more generic, transaction was successful.