# Class 5

## Putting it all together

## Thinking in React

- [from article - thinking in react](https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html)

Single Responsibility Principle

- A component should do only one thing. Otherwise, it should be broken down into subcomponents.

Static Versions

- Build a static version of your application to render data model, i.e., UI without interactivity.

- Then, add states to have interactivity. State changes will update the UI as events fire.

Determining whether a piece of data is state:

1. Is the data passed from a parent as props?  
2. Does the data remain unchanged over time?
3. Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component?

    > if yes --  not state

Identifying where state needs to live:

- Look for every component that renders something based on the state
- Find common owner component
- Either common owner or component higher up should own the state
- Can't find somewhere that makes sense? Add a new component (above common owner component) for sole purpose of holding state.

----

## Higher Order Functions

- [from this article](https://eloquentjavascript.net/05_higher_order.html#h_xxCc98lOBK)

- Function that operates on other functions in which they're used as arguments or being returned.

greaterThan function 

```js
function greaterThan(n) {
  return m => m > n;
}

// returning an arrow function that takes m as its argument and is testing it against n to see if it's greater.

let greaterThan10 = greaterThan(10);
console.log(greaterThan10(11));
// --> true
```

Transforming with *Map* + Summarizing with *Reduce*

- Both using the higher order function of for() and transforming elements within the array and then pushing it to new array.
- Essentially they produce a for-loop for the array and use its arguments to capture the data via an array and a filler that acts as an indexer or element grabber.
