# Class 7 - REST

[How I explained REST to my brother](https://gist.github.com/brookr/5977550)

"When a client request is made via a RESTful API, it transfers a representation of the state of the resource to the requester or endpoint. This information, or representation, is delivered in one of several formats via HTTP: JSON (Javascript Object Notation), HTML, XLT, Python, PHP, or plain text. JSON is the most generally popular file format to use because, despite its name, it’s language-agnostic, as well as readable by both humans and machines."

- From [redhat explanation](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/api/what-is-a-rest-api)

**Who is Roy Fielding?**

- He helped write the first servers that sent documents across the internet.

**Why don't the techniques that we use today work well when we need to be able to talk about all of the  machines in the world?**

- They weren't designed to do so; they were designed to talk to a small group of computers.

**What is the HTTP protocol that Fielding and his friends created?**

- The HTTP protocol created by Fielding uses GET to obtain things based on their URL (it applies verbs to nouns).

`GET` looks for a computer-readable resource.

`POST` adds something to another system

`PUT` replaces something in another system. 

`PATCH` partially updates something in another system

## API Keys

Request a key from the following APIs... 

- Geocoding API ✔️
- Weather Bit API ✔️
- Yelp API Docs ✔️
- The Movie DB API Docs ✔️

## Lecture Notes

### Code Challenge

Array and String Methods

- .split(), .join, .slice and .splice

- `.split()` - takes a string and turns it into an array

- `.join()` - takes an array and turns it into a string

- `.slice()` and `.splice()` - inserts and cuts things from any part of an array. splice will actually change data in place.
